Hart Montgomery: Good I guess morning Sally how are you today.
Sally MacFarlane: Good how are you.
Hart Montgomery: Not too bad a little busy but that's life I guess.
Sally MacFarlane: wouldn't have it any other way.
Sally MacFarlane: Except sometimes.
Hart Montgomery: This is such thing as too busy but.
Sally MacFarlane: I guess we'll give it a couple minutes.
Sally MacFarlane: to join in.
Sally MacFarlane: Do you go to many calls like for other projects.
Hart Montgomery: yeah I do.
Hart Montgomery: some more than others, but generally I try to rotate around and go to a bunch just to at least.
Hart Montgomery: You know catch the pulse of things.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah.
Danno Ferrin: Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, whatever it is.
Hart Montgomery: Good day.
Hart Montgomery: I had a random question for you Diana maybe Sally you can answer this to.
Hart Montgomery: Just a.
Hart Montgomery: a stream of conscious question.
Hart Montgomery: About across sort of all of the major theory of main net code basis how many external security audits, do you think are done annually.
Danno Ferrin: Low.
Danno Ferrin: Low to zero.
Hart Montgomery: Okay.
Danno Ferrin: I think basis, the only one that gets done.
Hart Montgomery: gotcha nobody else.
Danno Ferrin: So I think what they rely on is mostly their counties and effective at getting get audited no not audited, but you know secure by a factor of the.
Hart Montgomery: gotcha.
Danno Ferrin: And if we ended up hiring debs that way too.
Hart Montgomery: yeah It makes sense.
Danno Ferrin: But if they had audits they're not publicizing them I think basis that i've known i've seen an audit for.
Danno Ferrin: Mostly focused on the smart contracts.
Hart Montgomery: gotcha yeah no I don't just was curious.
Hart Montgomery: it's possible that people are doing audits and not publicizing them but.
Sally MacFarlane: Well, we might kick off.
Sally MacFarlane: Not super confident that other people can join me share my screen.
Sally MacFarlane: So.
Sally MacFarlane: housekeeping dancer just notice we're recording.
Sally MacFarlane: Please meet unless you begin and if you have a question.
Sally MacFarlane: So the first item on the agenda is about the incentive program and I copied in the notes from the contributed call two weeks ago in the other time zone, so I wonder, maybe hard, if you could talk us through that or if there's been any progress since.
Hart Montgomery: There hasn't been really a lot of progress it's on the desk of the higher ups at the lf.
Hart Montgomery: to sort of go over and i'm hoping to get it to the lawyer this week.
Sally MacFarlane: Say no action required from.
Hart Montgomery: No action required.
Hart Montgomery: You guys did a great job already.
Danno Ferrin: Did we need to identify the six deaths was like a little wiki page or something or.
Danno Ferrin: Was that SMS.
Hart Montgomery: yeah so that was a TIM ask, so we don't it doesn't need to be done soon, but.
Hart Montgomery: TIM wanted like he said it wouldn't be bad if we like got started identifying men that contributions.
Hart Montgomery: And you know we can basically put this wherever we want.
Hart Montgomery: But the idea is the ef wants it to be like a low lift for them to verify contributions.
Danno Ferrin: OK.
Hart Montgomery: So the idea is like you, like you, as a maintainer like say here's my name here's a link to my like my net contributions, and you know you can just link to the issues or the PR or whatever you want.
Hart Montgomery: So hopefully it's a low lift for everybody.
Hart Montgomery: like this solution seems to be the way to minimize the total work of the system.
Danno Ferrin: Right.
Sally MacFarlane: So that's what this is about wiki oh github.
For that yeah.
Hart Montgomery: So.
Danno Ferrin: And i'm wondering if we just tag our contributions may know.
Danno Ferrin: Maybe 10 the issues may know if we're doing like a non contribution like because one of the things that go into gets tracked as people spend a lot of time debugging consensus issues they don't necessarily write the code fixed.
Danno Ferrin: Absolutely, the data and it's hard to figure out, so the thought crossed my mind is if we just run a PR query and cross reference it with the main net tag that might work, but I don't think that will reflect all the people do.
Hart Montgomery: yeah so I don't yeah you're exactly right sorry to interrupt early there.
Danno Ferrin: yeah.
Danno Ferrin: we'll have to think yeah.
Danno Ferrin: Go ahead, something that just so there's a wiki page will integrate this right.
yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah so we could use like a query on that made that tag that you mentioned, no to sort of inform you know refresh your memory on what you did in the period, but there could be other things that don't appear as PR issues.
Danno Ferrin: So when we get.
Danno Ferrin: meet expectations exceed expectations ratings and will always be set by the way, i'm projecting to Google.
Danno Ferrin: sites is.
Hart Montgomery: I have pushed yeah I have pushed for feedback from TIM.
Hart Montgomery: And he said he thought it was a good idea, but he wouldn't guarantee it.
Hart Montgomery: So i'm hoping that, like you know, certainly for anyone who thinks their main contributor, and the F says no i'm i'm hoping, they will get an explanation.
Hart Montgomery: Right, I think they like.
Hart Montgomery: In most cases, will certainly deserve one.
Hart Montgomery: You know I doubt world get any like strongly malicious people.
Hart Montgomery: So, like.
Danno Ferrin: But we need to be prepared in case they didn't show this watching.
Hart Montgomery: It but.
Hart Montgomery: it's already limited to the maintainer.
Danno Ferrin: list right right.
Hart Montgomery: So you have to be a maintainer of basic even qualify for this right.
Danno Ferrin: Right, we need to be long con.
yeah.
Hart Montgomery: You have to be I did all this work.
Danno Ferrin: out a card where it's just like it's so much work to just do it, why not just do the work.
Danno Ferrin: And stuff.
Danno Ferrin: A lot of money to steal that was just like gonna jog around it.
Hart Montgomery: yeah yeah so.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay, so I guess, there is an actual need to set up like a wiki page or an area to put in there.
Hart Montgomery: yeah and I think.
Hart Montgomery: People suggested that they wanted a staff an hf staff person to be responsible for this.
Hart Montgomery: For now we you know we can have someone do this, we just need to know where you all want it and how you want to handle it.
Sally MacFarlane: say.
Sally MacFarlane: Sorry hi john staffers and what would they do exactly set up the wiki area.
Hart Montgomery: They could set it up and maintain it right, so I think somewhat grace or someone was worried that this would be a heavy lift for a maintainer.
Hart Montgomery: didn't I didn't think so, but.
Hart Montgomery: You know.
Hart Montgomery: it's a small thing, so we can have someone on staff like do it.
Hart Montgomery: But there was some discussion in the Community as to where this should be in sort of what format should take so it hasn't gotten done yet.
Sally MacFarlane: You mean whether it should be in the with the at all, just like what the page should be.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: So maybe we need a conversation, this is all we need.
Hart Montgomery: Sure yeah I mean if this could be just some someone proposing something and then.
Hart Montgomery: You know.
Hart Montgomery: People if no one says no, then.
Hart Montgomery: it's fine I don't expect this to be super contentious but.
You know.
Danno Ferrin: it's not contentious until TIM says notice something.
Hart Montgomery: TIM was fine with this so.
Hart Montgomery: I spelled out everything and gory detail and that document and TIM said it was fine so.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay, well, I guess i'm having to make a proposal if.
Hart Montgomery: yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay.
Sally MacFarlane: Anything else on that move on.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay, thanks for the context.
Sally MacFarlane: Of course, the roadmap.
Sally MacFarlane: probably still needs updating, we have had a couple of new.
up and start.
Sally MacFarlane: In consensus on that, on the basis side of things.
Sally MacFarlane: But I don't think they have gotten around to updating the road mapping.
Sally MacFarlane: In the wiki.
Sally MacFarlane: let's just release update.
Sally MacFarlane: So 24 zero.
Sally MacFarlane: And 22, for one, have been done is next I think I checked yesterday that was not yet a volunteer to build that one.
Sally MacFarlane: That we still got a couple of weeks so.
Danno Ferrin: I can do it i'm also set up for the 22 seven those releases to get areas so i'm going to take the first star see on that as well.
Danno Ferrin: Yes, we're rebuilding a tool chain of 17.
Sally MacFarlane: Yes, yeah yeah appreciate that.
Sally MacFarlane: I think if you're down for that one out there's there's two spots in here, I think.
Danno Ferrin: We can get other people to volunteer so.
Thank you for the.
Sally MacFarlane: Thank you for that and.
Sally MacFarlane: What else So the message update again I copied this from the.
Sally MacFarlane: vehicle.
Sally MacFarlane: don't have any further than that, other than 24 one had the robson tdd config.
Sally MacFarlane: Then I do have anything.
Danno Ferrin: i'm sorry I didn't get lucky.
Sally MacFarlane: and
Sally MacFarlane: jogging yeah.
Danno Ferrin: um yeah it's it's cute cover teams on called a numbers, the details, I did listen to last operatives called the the shadow folks went really well enough that they decided to pick a date to fork robson and.
Danno Ferrin: This is a pretty advanced commitment only once, when they've started rolling stuff out to test that so they will live back and it's a pretty serious security bug to our back.
Danno Ferrin: So that they're confident this part that the only thing they might see is being blindsided by serious security issue shows a lot of confidence that it's going to happen in the next two to four months on main that.
Sally MacFarlane: Co.
Sally MacFarlane: snap think.
Sally MacFarlane: is also looking good.
Danno Ferrin: I read a couple times on my MAC mini right here it's really nice cream Center like a job.
Danno Ferrin: To work and working with cream and didn't even get a person I can't remember the names I probably have his.
Danno Ferrin: A Hamlet I only have his.
Sally MacFarlane: decide that.
Sally MacFarlane: A museum.
Danno Ferrin: Okay um we've been talking in another room working on some performance issues.
Danno Ferrin: To try and get even more performance.
Danno Ferrin: The short summary is there some changes we need to we can improve by changing put Winnie.
Danno Ferrin: To stop doing things that you'll do stuff with bulk arrays rather than doing it, one by one it'll do through mega morphic interfaces.
Danno Ferrin: So that's some of the stuff we're working on there, but it's getting to the point where we really need to take a long hard look at the data performance of rocks TV.
Danno Ferrin: there's a couple things we could do, I never was able to figure out how to do.
Danno Ferrin: The configuration on the rocks up to make it any faster, so we could look and see what other people are doing for their rocks db configs.
Danno Ferrin: Another concern I have is the Gemini might be slowing things down and it's been a known issue and we go through it so much and so often.
Danno Ferrin: That the Jay and I might be an issue, so we might want to like start looking at speculative things like a Java project Panama, and having build a bronze stevie this would involve.
Danno Ferrin: Doing somewhere config so we can run on Java 19 so john 17 so we still have to give a Java 17 backwards performance, but we could have are blazing fast deeds in a database that runs on Java right team.
Danno Ferrin: And that's if the issue is July that gives us might be config but I did a snap seeing just this afternoon and honest to goodness 50% of the time was spent in the database commit in read code sections.
Danno Ferrin: rehab we're getting we're getting a lot of good a lot of good performance which.
Danno Ferrin: works, a lot of good performance worked on this.
Sally MacFarlane: that's awesome.
Sally MacFarlane: cool sounds exciting.
Sally MacFarlane: I look forward to hearing more.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay, other business curated so i've just did a process for curators which previously were called non code contributors.
Sally MacFarlane: So there's a wiki page with that process i've posted it in the squad as well share it around to people who are directly affected.
Sally MacFarlane: But essentially i've also got another PR to basically rip that process, out of the maintain this process so that the maintain his.
Sally MacFarlane: process goes back to how it was originally it's just maintain, is it code may titans and the QA, this is an entirely separate process.
Sally MacFarlane: So there's a draft process there's a PR and along with that maybe to this tree current maintain owners who only need curator status so that's madalyn Murray, and so Gita.
Sally MacFarlane: So I think them and they seem to be fine with that and.
Sally MacFarlane: But there's a PR which I think still needs to wait, the two weeks for the vote as part of an internal process.
Danno Ferrin: yeah it's that whole two week process like we just need a lightweight process, the Charter only speaks about people have permission to merge code yeah so we can do all this, within the context of the tree.
Sally MacFarlane: Great um, but I do think that the PR to change the process back.
Sally MacFarlane: still needs to wait, the two weeks.
Sally MacFarlane: yeah unless we get yes.
Sally MacFarlane: So yeah once that's done, then we should be lightweight and leaving So yes, thanks for your feedback on all of that done I.
Sally MacFarlane: will be good.
Sally MacFarlane: i'm going to skip metrics we still have this item here about having an off week discolored discord voice.
Sally MacFarlane: chat meetup I don't know if that's happened in your time zone.
Sally MacFarlane: or present a solution for that.
Danno Ferrin: It hasn't had a that had a very heavy schedule these past two months.
Danno Ferrin: As I think to cartoons also heavy schedule um.
Danno Ferrin: yeah I remember just We just need to propose a time it's not going to conflict with like standing seam stand ups another regular meeting, so we can just take it for now until after the marriage.
Yes.
Sally MacFarlane: And the last item that is Q, so we added kick you out static analysis, a little while ago and, for some reason I think last week it started just running out of memory, which is.
Sally MacFarlane: similar to what happened with that looks good to me one, so I did a similar thing added a config file specified and then we had enough fix the problem.
Sally MacFarlane: that's all I had did anyone else have anything.
Danno Ferrin: No nothing.
Sally MacFarlane: Short and sweet.
Sally MacFarlane: wait for the recording.
Sally MacFarlane: Thanks for coming.
Sally MacFarlane: Thank you, both.
Thanks.
Sally MacFarlane: All right.